Hey everyone. Welcome back
to movie recap. Today I'm
gonna show you a 2019 American
superhero film called,
Shazam
The film starts in 1974, Upstate New York. Young
Thaddeus Sivana is playing with a Magic 8 Ball
while riding with his father and older brother,
Sid. The two mock Thad for complaining when Sid
takes his toy away. After Thad gets it back,
strange symbols start to appear on the ball.
Sid and Mr. Sivana are gone, and Thad suddenly
finds himself in the Rock of Eternity. He is met
by a being known as The Wizard, who had summoned
Thad there. The Wizard tells Thad of an old group
of wizards he belonged to that found a champion
to inherit great powers, but he must first pass a
test. Next to Thad on the wall are large monstrous
statues that contain the Seven Deadly Sins,
evil creatures that wish to wreak havoc upon
mankind. They speak to Thad and tempt him to grab
an orb called The Eye so that Thad may possess an
even greater power. The Wizard then stops Thad and
declares him unworthy of receiving these powers
before sending him back to the car. Thad starts to
yell about what he saw, and in the confusion, Mr.
Sivana swerves and nearly collides with a truck.
As he berates his son, another car plows into
the Sivanas, causing Mr. Sivana to be ejected
from the car. He survives but is crippled,
and Sid blames Thad for what happened.
In present day, Philadelphia, 15-year-old Billy
Batson, tricks a pair of police officers to
respond to a shop robbery, only to lock them in
the store so he can get in their car and look
up information on a woman named Rachel Batson,
whom he believes to be his long lost mother.
Billy arrives at the address with a small compass,
which leads to a flashback to his childhood
when he last saw his mother. They were at a
carnival and Billy got separated from his mother,
but she never went to claim him when the police
found him. Billy walks up to the door and is
greeted by a woman who is clearly not his mother.
The police then show up and take Billy with them.
Billy meets with a social worker, Ms. Glover,
who brings up his history of getting into trouble
and running away from multiple foster
homes, none of which would take him back.
She is sympathetic to his quest to find his
mother, but reminds him that he only has one
more chance before he ends up somewhere worse. Ms.
Glover sets Billy up with Victor and Rosa Vasquez,
a couple who already care for five other foster
kids. They bring Billy home and introduce him to
the kids, Eugene Choi a video game nerd, Darla
Dudley a sweet little girl who immediately
embraces Billy as her new brother, Pedro Pena
a quiet kid that doesn't really talk to anyone,
Mary Bromfield an aspiring college
student and Freddy Freeman,
a superhero nerd who uses a cane to walk. He chats
with Billy and shows him some memorabilia he owns,
such as an authentified bullet that hit
Superman, as well as a Batmans Batarang.
Billy joins the other kids for school that day.
As he heads to class, Darla hugs him, but he
tells her that they are not actually brother and
sister, which makes her sad, and he regrets it.
Grown up Dr. Thaddeus Sivana sits in
on an interview with his scientist,
Dr. Lynn Crosby and another woman who claims to
have also been taken to the Rock of Eternity.
Dozens of other individuals have sent videos
detailing their account of meeting The Wizard
and what they saw. Sivana has been trying for
years to find a way back to the Rock of Eternity,
but only recently has he discovered
a pattern. He shows Crosby that the
same symbols appear and always repeat in the
same order. After he draws them on a door,
Crosby dismisses it and taps the door, which
opens a portal and causes Crosby to disintegrate.
Sivana enters through the door and finds
himself back in the Rock of Eternity.
He faces The Wizard and expresses
disdain for his rejection as a child,
and has come seeking a different power. He goes
for The Eye and takes it, which then lodges itself
in Sivana's right eye. This releases the Seven
Deadly Sins, who claim Sivana as their champion
and take shelter in The Eye. Sivana overpowers
The Wizard and leaves to go get his revenge.
After school, Freddy is knocked over by a
truck driven by the bullying Bryer brothers,
Burke and Brett. They continue to pick on Freddy
and kick him around, which Billy walks away from
until the bullies taunt Freddy over not having
parents. Billy grabs Freddy's cane and whacks the
Bryers over the head before the other foster kids
come to intervene. Billy runs away and is chased
by the Bryers until he gets away in a subway.
Suddenly, everyone in the subway vanishes and
the strange symbols appear again. Billy is now in
the Rock of Eternity, and he too meets The Wizard.
He has run out of options and feels that Billy
is the only one worthy of receiving his powers.
He explains to Billy that he and the other wizards
passed their powers onto their champion, but he
used his powers for evil and created the Seven
Deadly Sins, who killed many innocent people.
If Sivana lets them loose again, they will most
likely destroy mankind. The Wizard commands Billy
to hold onto his staff and say his name SHAZAM!
After Billy does so, he is struck by lightning and
turned into an adult superhero named, Shazam. He
possesses the wisdom of Solomon, the strength of
Hercules, the stamina of Atlas, the power of Zeus,
the courage of Achilles, and the speed of Mercury.
The Wizard then turns to dust after telling
Billy that he needs to be the champion.
The Vasquezes become worried
after Billy doesn t show up.
As Shazam, he sneaks around and gets Freddy
to come outside and prove who he is. Freddy
is amazed and excited, and they go around
the city to test out the powers of Shazam.
They go by the park and see a mugging about to
occur. Shazam speeds over to the mugger, but he
already got taken down by the woman he tried
to rob because she had mace. They return home
and fail to sneak past Victor and Rosa, so they
hide in Darla s room where she sees Shazam. After
saying his own name, he turns back into Billy.
The boys then tell Darla to keep this a secret.
Sivana goes to his father's corporation
where he is in a meeting with board members,
including Sid. After receiving yet another
cold dismissal from the two of them,
Sivana reveals his newfound powers by grabbing
Sid and throwing him out the window to his
death. He then sets the Sins loose, and they
proceed to kill all the other board members,
leaving Mr. Sivana for last. He pleads to his son
for mercy, but Sivana accuses him of being greedy
and now being the one crying for help. Fittingly,
Sivana allows Greed to finish off his father.
Billy turns into Shazam again and goes around
the city with Freddy to test out his powers.
He cannot seem to get the hang of flying, but he
is super strong, fast, and has lightning powers.
Freddy records everything, and Shazam becomes a
viral sensation. The two stop in a convenience
store so Shazam can buy beer, which the boys
discover they don't like, but then a robbery
starts to happen. Shazam goes to stop it and
gets shot, but the bullet bounces off of him,
meaning he is bulletproof. He then ties up
the robbers and throws them out of the store.
He even later has fun with his powers at school
and uses his strength to wreck the Bryers truck.
After being taunted by the Bryers again, Freddy
tells them and the other students that Shazam
will show up during lunch. Billy instead goes off
to continue doing superhero stuff, leaving Freddy
to be humiliated when he fails to show up. Freddy
later finds Shazam in the streets showing off his
lightning powers, and Freddy confronts him for
being a lousy friend and for using his powers to
be a jerk. Shazam then accidentally zaps the tires
off a bus, which veers over the edge of a bridge.
Still not knowing how to fly, Shazam waits
for the bus to fall so he can catch it and
then set it down. He s still viewed as a hero
for saving them despite causing the incident.
Freddy then ditches Shazam, and not long after,
the hero is found by Sivana. He shows that his
power can affect Shazam, and the villain tosses
him around the city before pulling him up to the
sky and dropping him. Before he hits the ground,
Shazam discovers that he can indeed fly. Sivana
takes their fight into a mall, but Shazam escapes
by saying his name and disappearing as Billy.
Freddy runs into the mall calling for Billy,
but Sivana sees and then notices a TV screen
with an earlier news report featuring Freddy
talking to Shazam. Sivana then follows the boy.
Out on the street, Billy sees a young woman
walking into the street about to get hit by a car.
He Shazams himself and swoops in to save
the woman, who turns out to be Mary. She is
distressed as she just got a college acceptance
letter but is hesitant because she is not sure
that she wants to leave her home. Shazam tries to
reassure her but accidentally slips up and calls
her Mary and mentions her being from a foster
home. He leaves, and Mary starts to suspect.
Billy returns home and gets chewed out by
Victor for running off and getting Freddy
involved in his troubles. After being left alone,
the kids go into Billy's room. Pedro found Billy's
notebook detailing all the women he searched
that he thought would be his mother, but Eugene
managed to track Billy's parents and learn that
his father is in prison and his mother, Marilyn,
is only two subway stops away. Billy heads off
to go find her. The kids then watch the news
report showing Freddy with Shazam. After piecing
it together, Mary and Eugene deduce that Billy
is Shazam, which Darla confirms. Freddy then
returns home, but he is accompanied by Sivana.
Billy arrives at Marilyn's apartment
to greet her. She doesn't recognize him
and is stunned but not relieved to see
Billy when he tells her he is her son.
Marilyn then confesses that she did look for
Billy when he got lost, but when she saw him
with the cops, she thought that he was better off
with them since she was just 17 and got kicked out
by her parents while Billy s father wasn't in
the picture. Realizing she never cared for him,
Billy gives her the compass toy that she won
him and he leaves brokenhearted. He then gets
a phone call from Freddy, but Sivana answers him,
and Billy realizes his siblings are in trouble.
Shazam finds the foster kids being held captive by
Sivana and the Sins at a carnival. Sivana orders
Shazam to give up his powers, or the Sins will
kill the kids starting with Darla. Shazam is
ready to do so and goes for Sivana s staff, but
he then remembers the words of The Wizard and is
inspired to achieve his heroic potential. He takes
the staff from Sivana and gets the other kids
to place their hands on it and yell, SHAZAM! The
kids then turn into adult superheroes themselves.
Realizing they need to separate the Sins
from Sivana s eye to rid him of his power,
they get Sivana to attack them while they fight
the Sins as they cause chaos upon the carnival.
The heroes save the patrons while Shazam fights
Sivana, who has Envy remaining in his eye.
Shazam taunts Envy in order to get him to
come out, and the Sin angrily jumps out
to attack Shazam, which causes the floating
Sivana to fall over the edge of a building,
hanging on for dear life. Shazam
reverts to Billy to get Envy off of him,
but then goes back to his hero form to
catch Sivana before he falls to his death.
He brings the villain with him and gets the
others to join him in the Rock of Eternity.
There, Shazam pulls the Eye out of Sivana, which
causes the Sins to revert to their statue forms.
After returning home, the siblings are praised
as mysterious superheroes. Billy later joins
the family for dinner and even says grace,
now having accepted them as his new family.
Back at school, Freddy sits alone at
lunch, now being shunned by his peers,
until Mary, Darla, Eugene, and Pedro join him.
Shazam then enters the cafeteria and amazes
all the other kids, even the Bryers. He sits
next to Freddy and calls him his best friend, as
well as showing off his special guest, SUPERMAN.
On Mid-Credits scene, Sivana is in
his prison cell drawing symbols all
over the walls in a desperate attempt
to go back to the Rock of Eternity.
He then hears a voice in the shadows calling
to him. It is a small caterpillar creature.
He offers Sivana a chance to work
with him to get what he wants.
On Post-Credits scene, Shazam and Freddy are
still trying to see what other powers Shazam has,
and talking to fish is not one of them.
Freddy wishes Shazam had powers like Aquaman,
but Shazam doesn't think he s that cool.
Thanks for watching See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click
the bell icon to get new video updates
Have a nice day !